feat(joes-water-corporation): use a more sensible solution (#7)
Bulldog-Computer-Club/Bulldog-Computer-Club.github.io: docs/weekly-questions/joes-water-corporation.md

When we apply the discount, our price decreases to $5$. However, as our competitor wins in the case of a tie, we still make $0$ profit.
Therefore, as our profit did not change, the output is `NO`.

## Model Solution 

<details><summary>Click to reveal</summary>
<p>

```py
joes_prices = map(int, input().split())
competitors_prices = map(int, input().split())
discount = int(input())

original_profit = 0
discounted_profit = 0

for i in range(len(joes_prices)):
    cur_joe_price = int(joes_prices[i])

>     cur_competitor_price = int(competitions_prices[i])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cur_joe_price = joes_prices[i]
    cur_competitor_price = competitions_prices[i]
```

>     # These conditionals check for 

Reviewer: incomplete comment?

    if cur_joe_price < cur_competitor_price:
        original_profit += cur_joe_price
    if cur_joe_price - discount < cur_competitor_price:
        discounted_profit += cur_joe_price - discount

print('YES' if discounted_profit > original_profit else 'NO')
```
### Step-by-step tutorial

Let's begin by reading in the input.
```py
joes_prices = map(int, input().split())
competitors_prices = map(int, input().split())
discount = int(input())
```

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

:::tip

If you are confused about how `map` is being used above, take a look at the model solution for [Joe's Doubling Points](joes-doubling-points#model-solution)!

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

:::

```py 
discount = int(input())

>  ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
```
``````

> Since we need `discount` to make calculations, we'll need to parse it into an integer. For everything else, we'll parse it later in the loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Unneeded elaboration (also, the point about parsing later does not apply now).

```py
for i in range(len(joes_prices)):
    cur_joe_price = int(joes_prices[i])
    cur_competitor_price = int(competitions_prices[i])
```

For each iteration, we'll need to store both Joe's and the competitor's price and
parse them into integers in order to make comparisons below:

```py
    if cur_joe_price < cur_competitor_price:
        original_profit += cur_joe_price
    if cur_joe_price - discount < cur_competitor_price:
        discounted_profit += cur_joe_price - discount
```

The first conditional checks **whether or not Joe's price without the discount applied
is less than the competitor's price**; if so, it counts as profit made without the discount applied to `original_profit`. Then, **if the difference of Joe's price and the discount is lower than the competitor's price**, we'll count that towards the `discounted_profit`.
 
```py 
print("YES" if discounted_profit > original_profit else "NO")
```

Finally, after we've compared their prices with and without Joe's discount applied,
we can see whether or not it made a difference. 

:::tip
    

> ```if discounted_profit > original_profit else``` is a ternary conditional statement, allowing
> simple conditionals to be more concise or "elegant", if you're into that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`true_val if condition else false_val` is a ternary operator, which is a concise way of expressing simple conditional statements.
```

When we apply the discount, our price decreases to $5$. However, as our competitor wins in the case of a tie, we still make $0$ profit.
Therefore, as our profit did not change, the output is `NO`.

> <!--

Reviewer: Please restore the comments. We don't want the model solution to be visible during the meeting.

## Model Solution 

<details><summary>Click to reveal</summary>
<p>

```py
joes_prices = input().split(' ')
competitions_prices = input().split(' ')
discount = int(input())

original_profit = 0
discounted_profit = 0

for i in range(len(joes_prices)):
    cur_joe_price = int(joes_prices[i])
    cur_competitor_price = int(competitions_prices[i])
    # These conditionals check for 
    if cur_joe_price < cur_competitor_price:
        original_profit += cur_joe_price
    if cur_joe_price - discount < cur_competitor_price:
        discounted_profit += cur_joe_price - discount

print('YES' if discounted_profit > original_profit else 'NO')
```
### Step-by-step tutorial

Let's begin by reading in the input.
```py
joes_prices = input().split(' ')

> competitions_prices = input().split(' ')

Reviewer: The `map()` construct is cleaner and we've already introduced it; please use that instead.

discount = int(input())
```
    
:::tip

> Since each number in a row of input is delimited by a single space, we can use `.split(' ')` to create a new list that separates all of them by spaces.

Reviewer: ditto

```py 
original_profit = 0
discounted_profit = 0
```

Here are the counts for the profit made without the discount applied and the profit made with it applied. This will allow us to compare the original profit to the discounted profit once we're done our calculations.

```py
for i in range(len(joes_prices)):
    cur_joe_price = int(joes_prices[i])
    cur_competitor_price = int(competitions_prices[i])
```

For each iteration, we'll need to store both Joe's and the competitor's price and
parse them into integers in order to make comparisons below:

```py
    if cur_joe_price < cur_competitor_price:
        original_profit += cur_joe_price
    if cur_joe_price - discount < cur_competitor_price:
        discounted_profit += cur_joe_price - discount
```

The first conditional checks **whether or not Joe's price without the discount applied
is less than the competitor's price**; if so, it counts as profit made without the discount applied to `original_profit`. Then, **if the difference of Joe's price and the discount is lower than the competitor's price**, we'll count that towards the `discounted_profit`.
 
```py 

> print('YES' if discounted_profit > original_profit else 'NO')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
print("YES" if discounted_profit > original_profit else "NO")
```

```

Finally, after we've compared their prices with and without Joe's discount applied,
we can see whether or not it made a difference. 

:::tip
    

> ```if discounted_profit > original_profit else``` is a tenerary if statement, allowing
> simple conditionals to be more concise or "elegant", if you're into that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```if discounted_profit > original_profit else``` is a ternary conditional statement, allowing
simple conditionals to be more concise or "elegant", if you're into that.
```

Compare this to if we wrote it normally:
```
if discounted_profit > original_profit:

>     print('YES')
> else:
>     print('NO')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    print("YES")
else:
    print("NO")
```

 
```py 
print('YES' if discounted_profit > original_profit else 'NO')
```

Now we need to get the profit after the discount is applied. First, apply the discount:

```py
for i in range(len(prices)):
	prices[i] -= discount
```
Finally, after we've compared their prices with and without Joe's discount applied,
we can see whether or not it made a difference. 

:::tip
    
```if discounted_profit > original_profit else``` is a tenerary if statement, allowing
simple conditionals to be more concise or "elegant", if you're into that.

We can again write this more compactly using a list comprehension.

```py
prices = [price - discount for price in prices]
```

:::

Now, we can compute the profit after the discount is applied.

```py
after_discount_applied = compute_total_profit(prices, competitors_prices)
Compare this to if we wrote it normally:
```

Finally, we can use a conditional statement to output the answer.

```py
print("YES" if after_discount_applied > original_profit else "NO")
if discounted_profit > original_profit:
    print('YES')
else:
    print('NO')
```
    
:::

</p>
</details>

> -->

Reviewer: ditto
